## OTP Wallet / 1wallet v16.2 Release Note

Date: Jan 7, 2024

Key updates:
- WalletConnect integration
- Auto-fill OTP code on iOS / macOS
- Built-in Recovery File Cloud Backup
- Password manager / Apple Keychain integration
- New site ([app.otpwallet.xyz](https://app.otpwallet.xyz)) and upcoming multi-chain support
- Multi-branding deployment
- New private RPC - Substantially improved speed, decreased failure rate
- Cleaned-up UI. Removed dysfunctional integrations (daVinci, Sushiswap)

## Details

### WalletConnect integration

Now the wallet can be used at any dApp that supports WalletConnect (e.g. Multisig / Safe, Swap, .country, and others). To use a wallet for WalletConnect session, click the WalletConnect icon in your wallet, or go to "Tools" and find WalletConnect there. Past the session link or scan WalletConnect QR code to start a session.

### Auto-fill OTP code on iOS / macOS

Now you can use the built-in autofill feature from iOS / macOS to automatically fill in your 6-digit OTP code for any operation. To enable that, you need to signup for an account when you create the wallet, let your browser automatically save the account with password, then follow the instructions on the prompts to save the verification code to that account. After this is done, whenever you click the input box for entering OTP code, you will be able to see the option to let your browser automatically fill-in the 6-digit code

### Built-in Recovery File Cloud Backup

You can backup your recovery file under "Recover" tab - click "Cloud Backup" and login your account to proceed. If you do not have an account (signed-up at wallet creation), you can still create an account there, but the account would not have the OTP code autofill capability. You can find all your backups in "Backup" page in the sider menu.

This service is provided free-of-charge, but in the future a small subscription fee will be required.

### Password manager / Apple Keychain integration

When you sign up an account (either at wallet creation stage, or at "Recover" tab), it is recommended to let your browser automatically generate a password for you. This ensures the smoothest experience in macOS, iOS, Chrome, and Brave, especially if you want to use the OTP autofill feature on macOS or iOS.

### New site and upcoming multi-chain support

New website ([app.otpwallet.xyz](https://app.otpwallet.xyz)) and documentation are work-in-progress. Soon, the wallet will be available on multiple blockchains such as Polygon, Base, Arbitrum, Avalanche

### Multi-branding deployment

Future multi-chain deployments will be at [app.otpwallet.xyz](https://app.otpwallet.xyz). The original 1wallet (i.e. Harmony deployment) that prioritize Harmony dApps and integrations will always be available at [1wallet.crazy.one](https://1wallet.crazy.one). We may also deploy other versions that are optimized for other blockchains in the future.

### New private RPC

All wallet transactions from now on, including those from the relayer and the client, will be conducted via modulo.so's validator network and private RPC nodes, which have much lower latency than the public RPC nodes provided by Harmony. This ensures smooth user experience and transactions even when the blockchain is in high usage.

### Cleaned-up UI

- Renamed Collectible to NFT
- Removed "Swap" tab temporarily since it is based on Sushi Swap, which is no longer actively operated on Harmony
- Moved QR Code feature under "About" tab. 
- Improved text explanations in Restore page. Now it is simpler and makes more sense
- Added equivalent hex address under address bar for "Call" feature
- Various other small improvements

